The Joe Rogan experience. That's.
Like, great. Well, you're, you're an unusual guy in that.
You're very left wing like me,
but you're also very second amendment pro second amendment, for sure. Like me.
Yeah. You know, like I find like you and I have very big parallels on that.
That's, that's true. You know, all for everyone's rights, like for everything.
I mean just, I, I want people to be free yeah. To do whatever. Yep. But when,
like this goes down and people are just randomly lighting targets on fire and,
you know, and,
and now smashing windows and stealing things and knocking cars over and pulling
people outta trucks.
Now you underst stand that the veneer of civilization is
very thin and the,
the chaos of being is very deep and it's,
I don't ever want to have to ease a gun ever. No, no,
a human being ever in my life, if I,
if I make it to the grave and never have encountered anyone that I,
I needed to shoot to per tech, my or my, my loved one's lives. Yeah.
I'd be a happy person. Yes, of course.
But I'd be much happier if I get to make that choice, you know? Yeah.
And I, I get to,
I have the opportunity or the ability to protect myself or to protect someone I
care about.
Well, I mean, it's like, it depends on the climate that you're, you know,
we live in a climate that is like for very,
so many reasons have we've gotten to this point at which essentially
I could just say a blank. The blanket blame goes to capitalism in general.
I mean, I'm sure like you talk about this on this, on the show a lot.
And capitalism in its most fundamental state is just essentially trade it's what
humans did at a, you know,
you set up a fruit stand and like someone's got bread and someone's got,
you know, and you, you trade.
And then there's kind of like an understood value for things.
And on a basic level, it's just kind of what we do as human beings. We barter,
we trade things like that,
but then you flash forward and you like overlay complexity over complexity,
over complexity that is then guided by people who are like, oh,
I can game the system a little bit more.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> I can game the system a little bit more and you get all
these hoarders and hoarders and people and choke points of resources.
Right. Mm-hmm <affirmative> so then they're,
they're kind of dictating the value, blah, blah, blah, blah.
Same thing goes with the arms. Uh, you know, um, it's like, yeah, I,
I enjoy the reason why I enjoy my ability to have a firearm is because I
respect their power. Um, I'm in,
I'm an engineered minded minded person.
So I like the engineering and the craftsmanship behind it.
And I like the responsibility and the safety factor of it that people take it
seriously. When I grew up, people were really adamant about the safety of guns.
Like everything that whenever I touched a gun,
looked at a gun before you pick it up, they'd be like,
never put your finger on the trigger.
Never pointed at anybody unless you plan on firing it. Um,
all the things that we all hear about that gun owners are supposed to be taught.
And so growing up with guns, I didn't really fear them. They were just a thing,
you know, and my, my whole mom's side of the family was all, uh, police,
police people. And my dad was a military policeman. He was in the military. So,
you know, guns like that was just a part of the thing, farmers hunting,
all that stuff. Great fall, same thing. Growing over to my friend's house,
seeing a, a deer hung up, strung up, you know,
on the rafters with a bunch of cardboard on the ground, you know,
getting ready to be processed, all of that stuff. <affirmative>. And for me,
I came back to guns like maybe like 10 years ago or something like that. Um,
because I wanted to,
I was interested in training and overcoming my fear of handguns. And, um,
and so that fascination was great, went to Montana. And my experiment was like,
how long will it take me to get a handgun? You know?
And I walked into a sporting good store. One of my,
one of my favorites walked in, timed it 20 minutes. I walked out. Wow.
And I had a bag with a handgun and ammunition in the bag and
I was walking outta the store. So there's no waiting period. No.
Now you fill out the, you know, the,
the background check mm-hmm <affirmative> you do the background check.
They're like, it looks like there's no red flags or whatever.
You can have the gun. Wow. Which, which part of me is like, part of me is like,
if you're a responsible gun owner and you respect firearms, um,
that seems kind of normal. Yes. You're like, oh, I'm responsible.
I know how to use this weapon safely.
I'm gonna buy this gun and I'm gonna walk out. Right.
And that was my first firearm I bought. Um,
whilst it was an interesting experiment, I will say.
And when I talked to all my law enforcement friends in Mon in Montana, like, uh,
you know, um, who was it, the guy who walked in,
he walked in his suit and had a full on three piece suit and then had his carry,
conceal carry on him and then walked in with a huge bag of like crazy guns.
But, um,
he is a prosecutor and has to have security when he <laugh>,
when he goes to cases and things like that. Because when they get convicted,
sometimes people sick, their friends on him and stuff like that. Anyways,
he'd never had any altercations,
but an interesting guy really like very heavily armed, blah, blah, blah, blah.
And I started talking to him. I was like,
what would happen if in order to get a firearm,
you had to like back when the NRA was the, when truly was the NRA,
when it was a bunch of like war vets who were like,
this is how you use firearms safely, like way back in those days. Uh,
if people had to go through training, um, and had to be evaluated,
how have to pass driving, like when you drive yeah. Get your driver's license,
you have to get into a car and you have to an instructor there and you have to
like pass these tests. And, and when I talk in that way, they're like,
I don't really have a problem with that. And I'm like, yeah,
because you're promoting, you're only doing yourself a favor, right. You're,
you're, you're promoting safety and you're educating people about with firearms.
And so up to them, if you,
you want to have a firearm or you don't want to have a firearm, but if you do,
you have to know how to safely operate a firearm.
And there are many kinds of firearms. They're not all the same thing. Yeah.
So anyways, but it was an interesting conversation. That is a powder keg.
Of a conversation. Right. I, I know if you even intimate, just, just,
just beat around the Bush,
that maybe be a good idea for people to learn how to use a gun before they buy a
trader trader
second amendment is a right.
I know. And that's, it's all right. I, I know. And, and I get, and you know,
and, and it's so funny because that's why I, like, I never talk.
I've got a bunch of friends. They,
they got conceal carry all the time for their professions in great falls.
You know, I'm sitting down with them, they've got a firearm on them.
I never feel like nervous or anything like that. But, and,
but they're highly opinionated about people who open carry and people who open
carry. They're always like those people almost always, uh, conceal,
carry permit. People always say that those,
they don't like those people because it's,
you have a weapon that's visible and it doesn't have a fancy biometric lock on
it. There's nothing. It's like,
if you're in a situation that someone walks up behind you and takes your gun,
they just, now they've got a gun and you just told everybody,
you just shown everybody that you have a firearm. Right.
And so there's this weird thing about open carry that conceal carry people
are like, this is ridiculous. While you can do it, if it's legal in your state,
certainly. Is it a good decision? I don't, I don't, I don't think so.
It's probably not a good decision to do it when you just go on Walgreens,
but that's what I'm saying. Yeah.
It's believe exists so that no one can ever
infringe upon your rights to have one in any capacity. So if you're sure,
you know what I'm saying? So like,
it's not a thing where you want to do all the time, but if you,
if some goes down and you have a gun outside of your house, the,
the law should be, you could do whatever the you want. Like you,
the law says you're allowed to open carry.
So you can have this gun outside your house doesn't mean go to the movies with a
AK 47 strapped your chest. Yeah.
Which people do. And, and I, and I get it. And I,
and the whole thing about like the gun issue is that it needs to start somewhere
and it should start at education. Yeah. You know, education's.
The, that's the key, right? Yeah. Like, and, and some people are great at it.
Most people that I know that are into guns are very into the safety aspect of
it. And they understand it and it's yeah. Have it's very important to them have.
Yeah. But it's one of those things where first of all, here's, what's weird.
I know so many people that want a gun now.
So many people that are asking for all.
These liberals, so many liberal friends of mine are asking me,
they're know you have a gun to be like, whethereveryone was like,
what is it take? I'm like, I was.
Talking, wow.
Two different friends who have had friends ask them if they can borrow
a gun. I'm like, you can't loan someone a gun. No. Can't.
No, can't<laugh> you.
You, you, people that are anti-gun are hilarious because yeah.
They don't know that there are rules. Like this idea that there's no rules,
no there's rules. Yes. Like, all they hear about is, oh,
but what about the gunho loophole? They start talking about the gun loophole.
Yes, yes. Yeah. Yeah. Go to a gun show then. Yeah. See any gun shows? No. Well,
you can't have my gun. Get the outta.
Here. Yeah, I know. I know. It's so, uh, that's the thing, that's,
that's the thing that's so hard about it, because like, for me, I'm like,
I'm a pragmatist. And um, and to me, it's always about awareness.
It's always about education mm-hmm <affirmative>.
And the thing that the conversation always breaks down on either side where it's
like,
if it's a gun nut and they're like any hint of something that says we're gonna
have to talk about yes. You know, they're like, no.
And then the people who are really anti-gun,
they're like any hint that there might have to be a compromise made,
then they're also equally like, no, and it nothing's ever gonna get done.
Unless you get soldiers, cops, people who use guns for an,
who have to use guns for a profession,
talking to people who are heritage, gun owners,
people who've been growing up for generations doing that.
Two people who live in urban situations where there's illegal gun sales and
black market guns and their problem with guns and their com their communities,
all that stuff needs to be talked about. But, but the sides are so entrenched.
It's very, very, very difficult. Well.
I think something like we're, we're experiencing right now,
these riots and El looing, this opens people's eyes. This is, uh,
like we were talking about our liberal friends that are very interested in
getting a gun. Now this opens people's eyes. You realize like, this is not, no,
one's on a power trip.
You're just talking about your ability to safely defend your loved ones and
yourself. Yeah. That's what that's all you're talking about. I, <affirmative>.
Absolutely a hundred percent, you know, and I'm my thing is too,
it's like technology is amazing and, and,
and guns are an interesting form of technology because obviously if again,
in a healthy situation, you're like, oh, did you see the new blah, blah, blah,
blah, blah. Oh yeah. They enhanced this. Oh, there's a trimout for the, uh,
silencer. So did you apply for the silencer? I have a class, one license,
all that geeky stuff. It says geeky, as people working on engines and hot rods.
Right, right. Exactly. There's there's that right.
Then there's the whole cultural thing that movies, you know, like, uh,
bad boys and everything,
just guns are just stuff that people just have and they're just shooting around.
And the thing is like,
people never understand when you talk to a war vet about guns and,
and gun fights and fire fightts especially recent fire. Fightghts,
they're like I never,
ever would ever wish you to ever be in a gun fight ever.
And so, uh, and I, and I believe them,
cuz I know things can change so quickly a bullet when you shoot a gun and it
hits somebody and it ends their life.
Even if they were like threatening you so forth,
that is one of the most traumatic things that can happen in a human being's
life. And they have to live with that all the time. I mean, soldiers,
at least they have like, I'm on a side and I'm trained, you know,
in their psychological help and all that stuff. Or police officers, same thing.
Most of 'em never even draw their weapons, but when they do and they do fire it,
the consequences are devastating on a psychological level.
But I will say that, you know, I, I, my friend who carries, I was like,
what if the first three rounds that you have in your personal protection gun,
like at home or whatever your handgun, whatever it is,
what if the first three rounds were rubber?
And then there were live rounds after that. And he was like, oh,
that's an interesting idea. And I'm like anything to protect yourself,
but not necessarily Guarante that you're going to kill, kill somebody if it's,
you know, if it's a, a weird situation, situations happen fast.
And I understand when someone comes into your house, all bets are off.
Whatever you need to do.
However you feel if someone breaks into your house that's I understand that
completely. But for me I'm like,
what can I do to make it really hard for someone to even get to me in
the first place? Yeah. And my last, last,
last resort is a weapon that can kill somebody. That's my very,
very, very last, but I'm gonna do everything I, to be as preemptive,
as possible to not be enticing for people to want to come up and attack.